All right, so we have our very first
problem already in front of us.
Let me remove myself from
here so that we can focus fully
on the screen itself.
So notice here we have
a problem statement written.
And just like previous ones, we will
just focus on one thing first.
Understand the problem, and then
we'll write the code for it.
Let's prepare the code
material first because we have
to create a new folder.
Let's call this one as 04 loops.
So much code that we have written.
Let me write that again.
Made a mistake.
Mistakes are part
of writing the code.
We'll call them as loop or loops.
Both are interchangeable word.
So, all right, what's the problem?
What kind of software
we want to build?
The software is pretty easy.
A T stall owner has a digital
token display.
All right.
Pretty common.
We have seen that
in the queue system.
Might be T staller, might be
in the hospital queues everywhere.
For every customer in line,
a token number is printed
and chai is served.
Okay, so task use a for loop
to generate a token number between
from 1 and 10 using range.
So we'll see the implementation
of range as well.
And print servingchai
to token and then also print
the token number as well.
So this might sound.
Okay, I don't know how
to even start with that.
So because this is all
new, you haven't looped
through anything at all.
So, so how we can print this.
And if you see this closely,
the goal is pretty simple.
The first goal is learn how to use
range so that you can generate
number between 1 and 10 and then
simply print this message 10 times.
But the only thing that's
changing all the 10 times is
the number, hashtag, then
whatever the number is here.
So that should be pretty.
Okay, let me walk you
through with the syntax.
And I think this is one
of the best way to learn about this.
So we'll create the new file
and I will call this one
as, let's just say 01.
And this will be token dispenser.
That's what it is doing.
It's dispensing the token.
Of course we have
to go through with py.
All right, I'll, shut up my AI.
Otherwise it will disturb us.
There we go, moving nicely.
And let me expand this.
All right, so how do we start Loop?
Loop always starts with the keyword
for yes, there is another one while,
but this is always how it starts.
Then you simply declare a variable.
I will call this variable as token.
Now feel free to call
this as anything.
This is just a Variable.
Now once you have decided
the variable, then you put up
the keyword in and then you decide
where you want to loop through.
This is the range you give and this
can be any iteratable object, it can
be a list, it can also be a string.
But in this case we will
learn how the range works.
So this is range.
This automatically comes
up with the python.
And here you give a start and a stop
range to this one.
So my starting point is one,
I want to start with one
and I want to go till the 10.
So I will just put 11 here because
range are not inclusive in
the manner so it will start with 1,
1, 2, 3 so on will go till the 10.
As soon as it goes 11,
this is not inclusive.
Then hit a column and then hit enter.
Automatically the indentation comes
up.
So I'll just go ahead and say
print and then the message,
what's the message?
We have to get serving chai to token
and then token number as well.
So we'll just go ahead and say
serving chai to token and then put
up a hash and then the token number.
So this token, the variable
that we have declared here, this
could be anything right now
token makes sense for us so
we are calling it as token.
But this could be anything.
This could be hitesh.
This could be chai, this could
be index, whatever you like.
This will be the range will keep
on producing the number.
For example 1, the variable
will first iteration it will
go ahead and say that hey,
this is now number one.
So let's draw actually a diagram
to understand this a little
bit that how the whole
processing actually works.
So this is your range.
So in this range your numbers
will keep on starting.
So I just say that hey, in the range
I will have the number one first.
And we have also created
a variable here.
That variable is token token.
And the value of the token
right now is exactly what
you have produced here.
So I'll just go ahead and come
up here and then simply you do what
is the task that I have to do.
So everything that you see after
indentation, this is the task.
So I will just go ahead and say hey,
I want to produce or do a task.
So I'll just go ahead
and put up a task here.
There we go.
We do a task like this.
So I'll just shrink this
because it doesn't make sense
to have it big and wide.
Whatever the task is, it could be one
line of task, it could be hundred
line of task, doesn't really matter.
So as long as we are keeping
printing this range.
So notice here the range is 1.
So first of all it will go
ahead and do this task.
Then it will come back again.
The range will again
produce a new number.
So it will be two.
This number will also be two.
It will again go ahead and say that.
Hey, now we want
to print this one here.
Again, sorry for the 2a,
it's actually 2.
Then we'll go ahead
and change the number 3.
This will also get 3.
So the display
of the variable will be 3.
So we'll just go ahead
and display it like 3.
Eventually the number will
reach to a point where
it is out of the range.
We don't have any range.
So it will go to 11.
11 we don't want to print.
So it will just end it up there.
And just before that it will be 10.
So the number here will
become 10 and for the 10
type it will go ahead.
Oops.
It will go ahead and print this one.
So this will be the last one.
So the 10th number will be last.
That is how it works.
Pretty simple.
You asked it to work on 10
times, it is working 10 times.
That's the most simplest
and basic loop.
Let's go ahead and run this
so that we can just finally
validate what's going on.
So I'll just go ahead and say
hey Python, I want to run
inside the 04 and probably I want
to wrong one, delete this.
Open an integrated terminal
on this one and we'll say Python 3.
Just run this file and there we go.
So we can see we just added
the value token here.
And notice here it just always says
token, token, token just like that.
So this is a little bit of a strange
that why we got this one.
I'm pretty sure you might
have debugged this already.
This is not a special string
that we are printing.
So what wrong we are doing?
Just forgotten a F here.
I hope that was easy to catch.
This was not intentional.
I also did a mistake.
But again, don't panic
on the mistake.
It's okay.
We always fix those mistakes.
So we can see now we have
all the values till the 10.
And once the 10 was hit, that is it.
The loop ended.
Pretty good example to work on with.
I hope you have enjoyed this.
Along with this nice small diagram,
we will be keep on drawing them.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.